Getting Started
NexT User Docs – Starting to Use
DOCS GETTING STARTED
Hexo Installation
If this is your first time using Hexo, make sure you have the environment set up correctly. To get started, you need to:

Install Node.js: You can download the installer from the Node.js official website, use the package management tool included with your operating system, or use a Node.js version management tool like nvm. After installation, you should be able to execute node and npm commands in the command line.

Install Hexo CLI globally: Run npm i -g hexo-cli. After this, you should be able to execute the hexo command in the command line.

Initialize a Hexo site: Execute hexo init hexo-site. You can replace hexo-site with another path name, but this document will use hexo-site as an example. This directory will be referred to as the site root directory in the following text.

Ensure you have a reliable internet connection during the installation process. If you encounter any issues, consider configuring a proxy for npm or git, or using mirror sites.

For more detailed installation steps, please refer to the Hexo Docs to see how to install Hexo and initialize a site. After the installation is successful, you should be able to execute hexo (or npx hexo) on the command line, and there must be package.json, source, themes and other directories in your site root directory:

$ cd hexo-site
$ ls
_config.yml  node_modules  package-lock.json  package.json  scaffolds  source  themes
If you are new to Node.js or Hexo, you can also modify the source code of an existing Hexo website instead of creating a new one, to help you understand how Hexo works. In fact, the document you are reading is generated by Hexo with NexT, and you can install it with the following command:

git clone <https://github.com/next-theme/theme-next-docs>
cd theme-next-docs
npm install
Make sure that you have installed Hexo and created a site with it successfully, because the following documents require you to operate in the site root directory.

NexT Installation
The detailed steps to install or upgrade the theme are as follows.

Downloading NexT
It's easy to install Hexo theme: you can choose to install the theme through npm, or download the source code of the theme in the themes directory under site root directory.

Using npm
Using git
If you're using Hexo 5.0 or later, the simplest way to install is through npm.

Open your Terminal, change to Hexo site root directory and install NexT theme:

cd hexo-site
npm install hexo-theme-next
You can also read detailed installation instructions if you want any other installation variant.

Upgrading NexT
The NexT theme will continue to release new versions to include new features and bug fixes. Please read the release notes before updating the theme. You can update NexT by the following command.

Using npm
Using git
If you have installed NexT theme through npm, you can upgrade it to the latest version by re-installing it:

cd hexo-site
npm install hexo-theme-next@latest
Note that any local changes to the theme inside node_modules directory will be lost when you run npm install. If you have made changes to the theme, you should back up the changes before running npm install, and then restore the changes after the installation is complete.

It's not recommended to modify the theme files in node_modules directory. To customize the theme, you can use the Custom Files feature.

If you are still using NexT version 5 or 7, you can read instructions for upgrading from legacy version.

Configuration Files
After completing the installation of Hexo and the NexT theme, you can customize your blog by modifying the configuration files. When you install Hexo, the accompanying configuration file is located in the site root directory of your blog and is named _config.yml; we refer to this as the Hexo config file. The configuration file for the NexT theme needs to be created by you; please create a_config.next.yml file in the site root directory, which we will refer to as the NexT config file in the following text. If you have installed other themes, then the configuration files for those themes will also follow the naming convention of _config.[name].yml.
After creating an empty_config.next.yml file, you can copy the default configuration options from the theme's folder over to it, so you can refer to them for modifications and customization. Depending on your installation method, the NexT theme's default configuration file may be located in themes/next/_config.yml or node_modules/hexo-theme-next/_config.yml.
In simple terms, if you are installing the NexT theme for the first time, you can execute the following command to obtain a usable NexT configuration file:

# Installed through npm

cp node_modules/hexo-theme-next/_config.yml _config.next.yml

# Installed through Git

cp themes/next/_config.yml_config.next.yml
Please be aware that some other documents or tutorials may suggest creating or directly modifying files such as themes/next/_config.yml and node_modules/hexo-theme-next/_config.yml. Indeed, doing so can be accepted by Hexo and serve as your theme configuration file. However, this approach can lead to many inconveniences. For example, when upgrading the theme, custom modifications made to these default configuration files may lead to conflicts or be overwritten, causing data loss. Therefore, please use the previously introduced_config.next.yml file as the theme's configuration file, and avoid creating or modifying other theme configuration files to prevent conflicts.

For more information, please refer to Alternate Theme Config feature documentation.

Hexo Configuration
The following settings in Hexo config file are very helpful for optimizing your website.

Configuring Author
Edit Hexo config file and set the value of author to your nickname.

Hexo config file

# Site

author:
Configuring Description
Edit Hexo config file and set the value of description to your description, which can be a sentence you like.

Hexo config file

# Site

description:
Enabling NexT
Like all Hexo themes, after you download it, open Hexo config file, find theme option, and change its value to next (or another theme directory name).

Hexo config file
theme: next
Now you have installed NexT theme and enabled it. The following steps will help you verify whether NexT is enabled correctly.

Checking NexT
It's recommended to use hexo clean to clean Hexo's cache first.
Then start Hexo local server with debug parameter (by adding --debug), the whole command is hexo s --debug. You can see the output while running, and if you find problem, you can use the output to help others locate error better. When it prints:

INFO  Hexo is running at <http://localhost:4000/>. Press Ctrl+C to stop.
Now you can open <http://localhost:4000> in your browser, and check whether the site works correctly.

If you find your site looks like this picture, you have installed it correctly. That's default NexT scheme – Muse.
Default Scheme – Muse

After that we can configure deployment.

If everything is OK, in next steps we will change some settings including personalization and third-party services integration.

Theme Settings
NexT User Docs – Theme Settings
DOCS THEME SETTINGS
One of the guiding principles of NexT is to hide complex details and give you a simple but flexible config, so you can use it easily.

The values given in the document are often typical allowable values rather than default values. They may be different from those in NexT config file.

NexT Quick Start
Cache Support
NexT v6+ allows to cache content generation. Set the value enable to true in cache section in NexT config file as following:

NexT config file

# Allow to cache content generation

cache:
  enable: true
Minify Support
NexT allows to minify Hexo generation. Set the value minify to true in NexT config file as following:

NexT config file

# Remove unnecessary files after hexo generate

minify: true
Choosing Scheme
Scheme is a feature supported by NexT, by using Scheme NexT gives you different views. And nearly all config can be used by those Schemes. Till now NexT supports 4 schemes, and they are:

Muse → Default Scheme, this is the initial version of NexT. Uses black-white tone and mainly looks cleanly.
Mist → A tighter version of Muse with a tidy single-column view.
Pisces → Double-column Scheme, fresh like your neighbor's daughter.
Gemini → Looks like Pisces, but have distinct column blocks with shadow to appear more sensitive to view.
You can change Scheme by editing NexT config file, searching scheme keyword. You'll see 4 lines of scheme settings and can enable one of them by removing it's # and added # to previous.

NexT config file

# scheme: Muse

# scheme: Mist

# scheme: Pisces

scheme: Gemini
Dark Mode
NexT SchemesNexT Schemes
You can enable Dark Mode by setting darkmode to true in NexT config file.

NexT config file
darkmode: true
The prefers-color-scheme CSS media feature is used to bring Dark Mode to all 4 schemes above, make sure your browser supports it.

Theme NexT automatically shows Dark Mode if the OS preferred theme is dark. It's supported by macOS Mojave, iOS 13 and Android 10 or later. Relevant docs:
How to use Dark Mode on your Mac
Use Dark Mode on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch
Dark theme | Android Developers

Configuring Favicon
By default the Hexo site use NexT favicons in hexo-site/themes/next/source/images/ directory with different size for different device. You can replace them with your own favicons.

For example, you can put your favicons in hexo-site/source/images/ directory. Then you need to rename them and change the settings in favicon section in NexT config file, otherwise icons from Next will rewrite your custom icons in Hexo.

You can also put custom favicons into hexo-site/source/ directory. In this way, you must remove /images prefix from paths.

To generate custom favicons, you can visit Favicon Generator.

NexT config file
favicon:
  small: /images/favicon-16x16-next.png
  medium: /images/favicon-32x32-next.png
  apple_touch_icon: /images/apple-touch-icon-next.png
  safari_pinned_tab: /images/logo.svg
  android_manifest: /images/manifest.json
Custom Logo Support
NexT supports the site logo personalization.

You can enable it by adding images's url to custom_logo in NexT config file.

NexT config file
custom_logo: /uploads/custom-logo.jpg
Scheme Mist does not support custom logo setting.

Creative Commons
NexT supports the display of Creative Commons 4.0 International License in sidebar and post including by, by-nc, by-nc-nd, by-nc-sa, by-nd, by-sa and cc-zero. These licenses allow creators to communicate which rights they reserve, and which rights they waive for the benefit of recipients or other creators.

You can configure it by editing values in creative_commons section in NexT config file, for example:

NexT config file
creative_commons:

# Available values: by | by-nc | by-nc-nd | by-nc-sa | by-nd | by-sa | cc-zero

  license: by-nc-sa

# Available values: big | small

  size: small
  sidebar: true
  post: true
  language: deed.zh
You can set a language value if you prefer a translated version of CC license, e.g. deed.zh
CC licenses are available in 39 languages, you can find the specific and correct abbreviation you need on <https://creativecommons.org>

Open Graph
NexT config file
open_graph:
  enable: true

# Add pairs each line to customize

  options:
    type: blog
Configuring Menu Items
Menu settings items have format Key: /link/ || icon which contains 3 values:

Key
link
icon
Key → is the name of menu item (home, archives, etc.).
If translate for this menu will be found in languages, this translate will be loaded; if not, Key name will be used.

Key value is case sensitive (e.g. home is not same as Home).

By default, all menu items are commented out to ensure that you can override them in the Alternate Theme Config.
To customize menu items, edit the following content in NexT config file:

NexT config file
menu:
  home: / || fa fa-home
  #about: /about/ || fa fa-user
  #tags: /tags/ || fa fa-tags
  #categories: /categories/ || fa fa-th
  archives: /archives/ || fa fa-archive
  #schedule: /schedule/ || fa fa-calendar
  #sitemap: /sitemap.xml || fa fa-sitemap
  #commonweal: /404/ || fa fa-heartbeat
Except home and archives, all custom pages under menu section need to be created manually. See «Custom Page Support».

Besides, hexo-generator-sitemap plugin is required for sitemap support.

Dynamic sub-menu within hierarchy structure is also supported. Add your sub-menu items in menu section in NexT config file as following:

NexT config file
menu:
  home: / || fa fa-home
  archives: /archives/ || fa fa-archive
  Docs:
    default: /docs/ || fa fa-book
    Getting Started:
      default: /getting-started/ || fa fa-flag
      Installation: /installation.html || fa fa-download
      Configuration: /configuration.html || fa fa-wrench
    Third Party Plugins:
      default: /third-party-services/ || fa fa-puzzle-piece
      Math Equations: /math-equations.html || fa fa-square-root-alt
      Comment Systems: /comments.html || fa fa-comment-alt
A default page is required for each sub-menu item.

By default NexT shows the icons of menu items without badges.

icons
badges
You can configure it by editing value icons in menu_settings section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
menu_settings:
  icons: true

# Sidebar Setting

NexT User Docs – Theme Settings – Sidebar
DOCS THEME SETTINGS SIDEBAR
Sidebar Style
By default sidebar only shows in posts (have a table of content), and is placed in left side. You can change it by editing values under sidebar setting in NexT config file.

Sidebar has several options, including position, width_expanded, width_dual_column, display, padding and offset.

position
width_expanded
width_dual_column
display
padding
offset
Set up sidebar position by changing the value of sidebar.position, which can be one of following:

left → Place at the left of the screen.
right → Place at the right of the screen.
NexT config file
sidebar:
  position: left
  #position: right
Configuring Avatar
By default NexT doesn't show avatar in sidebar. You can configure it by editing values under avatar setting in NexT config file.

url
rounded
rotated
For first test you can uncomment /images/avatar.gif value near the avatar.url setting to see default avatar:

NexT config file
avatar:
  url: /images/avatar.gif
Then you need to specify your own avatar. It can be done one of the ways below:

Hexo directory
NexT directory
Absolute URL from Internet
Put your avatar under site directory source/uploads/ (create directory if it doesn't exists).
And then change option to url: /uploads/avatar.png.

Sidebar Site State
By default NexT shows the categories and counts of Posts / Categories / Tags in sidebar. You can configure it by editing value site_state in NexT config file.

NexT config file
site_state: true
Sidebar Social Links
Social Links have similar structure as Menu Items, only target link there is difference: specified link must have full url path (permalink).

Edit the social section in NexT config file as following:

NexT config file
social:
  GitHub: <https://github.com/yourname> || fab fa-github
  E-Mail: mailto:yourname@gmail.com || fa fa-envelope
  Weibo: <https://weibo.com/yourname> || fab fa-weibo
  Twitter: <https://twitter.com/yourname> || fab fa-twitter
  FB Page: <https://www.facebook.com/yourname> || fab fa-facebook
  StackOverflow: <https://stackoverflow.com/yourname> || fab fa-stack-overflow
  YouTube: <https://youtube.com/yourname> || fab fa-youtube
  Instagram: <https://instagram.com/yourname> || fab fa-instagram
  Skype: skype:yourname?call|chat || fab fa-skype
By default NexT shows the icons of social links in sidebar.

enable
icons_only
transition
You can configure it by editing value enable in social_icons section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
social_icons:
  enable: true
Sidebar Blogrolls
You can add blog rolls within sidebar in NexT.

links_settings
links
By default NexT shows the globe icon  before title. The name of icon can be found in Font Awesome site. You can configure it by editing value icon in links_settings section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
links_settings:
  icon: fa fa-globe
By default all blogrolls are displayed in block. You can configure it to inline by editing value layout in links_settings section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
links_settings:
  layout: block
Sidebar TOC
enable
number
wrap
expand_all
max_depth
By default NexT shows Table Of Contents (TOC) in the sidebar. You can disable it by setting toc.enable to false in NexT config file.

NexT config file
toc:
  enable: true

# Footer

NexT User Docs – Theme Settings – Footer
DOCS THEME SETTINGS FOOTER
Site Copyright Setting
Site Start Time
By default NexT shows current year in the footer like © 2020. You can configure it to show the time gap like © 2015 - 2020 by editing value since in footer section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
footer:
  since: 2020
Site Footer Icon
By default NexT shows red heart icon  with animation between year and copyright information in the footer. You can configure it by editing value icon in footer section in NexT config file.

name
animated
color
The name of footer icon can be founded in Font Awesome site. heart is recommended.

NexT config file
footer:
  icon:
    name: fa fa-user
Site Copyright Name
By default NexT shows the name of author from Hexo config file. You can configure it by editing value copyright in footer section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
footer:
  copyright:
Set copyright to false will disable the copyright statement completely.

This option will only customize the author name in the footer. The name in the Creative Commons License section at the end of each post is not affected.

Site Platform Information
By default NexT shows Hexo and Theme & scheme information like Powered by Hexo & NexT.Muse. You can configure it by editing value powered in footer section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
footer:
  powered: true
Site Beian Information
Beian information is for Chinese users. By default NexT will not show the information of beian. You can configure it by editing values in footer.beian section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
footer:
  beian:
    enable: true
    icp: 京ICP备 1234567890号-1
    gongan_id: 1234567890
    gongan_num: 京公网安备 1234567890号
    gongan_icon_url: /uploads/beian.png

# POST

Post Settings
NexT User Docs – Theme Settings – Posts
DOCS THEME SETTINGS POSTS
Preamble Text
It's a common need to show some part of article in home page and then give a link to full article. NexT gives two ways to control how article is shown in home page. In other words, you can use following ways to show summary of articles and a Read More button.

Tag more
excerpt_description
Use <!-- more --> in your article to break your article manually, which is recommended by Hexo.

It is recommended to use <!-- more --> (the first way) which can not only control what you want to show better, but also let Hexo's plugins use it easily.

Post Meta Display
NexT supports post created date, post updated date and post categories display.

item_text
created_at
updated_at
categories
By default NexT shows the description text of post meta. You can disable it by setting value post_meta.item_text to false in NexT config file.

NexT config file
post_meta:
  item_text: true
Post Wordcount
Installation →
Hexo Config →
NexT Config
Install hexo-word-counter by executing the following command in site root dir:

npm install hexo-word-counter
hexo clean
Tag Icon
By default, tags at the bottom of posts have a symbol # at there left side.

If you prefer icon instead of symbol, edit NexT config file like following:

NexT config file
tag_icon: true
Donate Settings
NexT theme provides a donation feature that allows readers to show appreciation for your work. You can display QR codes for various payment methods (such as WeChat Pay, Alipay, Bitcoin, etc.) at the end of your articles, making it convenient for readers to support your content creation efforts. What you need is:

Get your WeChat / Alipay / Bitcoin receive money QRcode image(s) and put into source/images under theme directory or upload it(them) to an image cloud to get the absolute HTTP address(es).

Set needed values in NexT config file:

NexT config file

# Donate (Sponsor) settings

# Front-matter variable (nonsupport animation)

reward_settings:

# If true, a donate button will be displayed in every article by default

  enable: true
  animation: false

reward:
  wechatpay: /images/wechatpay.png
  alipay: /images/alipay.png
  bitcoin: /images/bitcoin.png
You can also add QRcode of other platforms, e.g.

NexT config file
paypal: /images/paypal.png
monero: /images/monero.png
Follow Me
NexT theme offers a "Follow Me" feature that enables you to showcase your social media presence and other communication channels. This allows your readers to follow your content across various platforms, helping you build and maintain a stronger connection with your audience. You can display links to popular social networks, messaging platforms, or RSS feeds, each accompanied by its corresponding icon for better visual recognition.

NexT config file

# Subscribe through Telegram Channel, Twitter, etc

# Usage: `Key: permalink || icon` (Font Awesome)

follow_me:
  #Twitter: <https://twitter.com/username> || fab fa-twitter
  #Telegram: <https://t.me/channel_name> || fab fa-telegram
  #WeChat: /images/wechat_channel.jpg || fab fa-weixin
  #RSS: /atom.xml || fa fa-rss
You can add links of other platforms not listed here, for example:

NexT config file
follow_me:
  Zhihu: <https://www.zhihu.com/people/username> || fab fa-zhihu
Related Popular Posts
The "Related Popular Posts" feature helps you increase reader engagement by displaying a list of related articles in the sidebar. This encourages visitors to explore more of your content that matches their interests, potentially increasing page views and create a better user experience.

To utilize this feature, you'll need to install a third-party plugin hexo-related-posts first, as NexT relies on its functionality to analyze and determine content relationships.

Installation →
enable
icon
Install hexo-related-posts by executing the following command in site root dir:

npm install hexo-related-posts
hexo clean
Enable this plugin in Hexo config file by adding the following line:

Hexo config file
related_posts:
  enable: true
For more configuration options, please refer to the plugin's documentation.

Post Edit
NexT supports the edit functionality of your posts. By enabling this feature, users can quickly browse and modify the blog's source code on GitHub.

enable
url
You can enable it by setting value post_edit.enable to true in NexT config file.

NexT config file
post_edit:
  enable: true
Post Navigation
Show previous post and next post in post footer if exists.

NexT config file
post_navigation: left

# CUSTOM PAGES

Custom Pages
NexT User Docs – Theme Settings - Custom Pages
DOCS THEME SETTINGS CUSTOM PAGES
Custom Page Support
Next allows users to add custom pages in menu.

Adding New Page →
Setting Front-matter Values →
Editting Menu
Change to site root directory in your terminal. Use hexo new page custom-name to create a new custom-name page:

cd hexo-site
hexo new page custom-name
If you want to add Tags or Categories page, please continue reading.
Please read Hexo's Docs of Categories & Tags to know how to add tags or categories for articles.
Following code shows you a example of article with tags:

Variant 1
Variant 2
title: Tags Testing Article
tags: [Testing, Another Tag]
---

Use Archive Page as Home Page
You can configure the path of archive and index generator in Hexo config file, e.g.

Hexo config file
archive_dir: /

index_generator:
  path: archives
  per_page: 10
  order_by: -date
Adding «Tags» Page
Adding «Tags» page and show «Tags» link in menu. «Tags» page will show all tags of site. If no article has tags, this page will leave blank.

Adding New Page →
Setting Page Type →
Editting Menu
Change to site root directory in your terminal. Use hexo new page tags to create a new tags page:

cd hexo-site
hexo new page tags
If you enable any comment system for your site, comments will be shown for all posts and pages.
See «How to Disable Comments on Page» if you want to do it for pages like tags or categories.

The default Hexo plugin hexo-generator-tag provides an option called enable_index_page, which will conflict with the «Tags» page created above. Make sure you have the option disabled.

Hexo config file
tag_generator:
  enable_index_page: false
Tagcloud
By default, NexT has setted font color and size for tagcloud in tags page.
From NexT v7.0.2 you can customize them, just set related values in NexT config file:

NexT config file

# TagCloud settings for tags page

tagcloud:
  min: 12 # Minimum font size in px
  max: 30 # Maximum font size in px
  amount: 200 # Total amount of tags
  orderby: name # Order of tags
  order: 1 # Sort order
Adding «Categories» Page
«Categories» page can be added in similar way as «Tags» page, only name there is difference: just need to replace tags with categories.

Adding Google Calendar Page
Mind that you need to make sure first you are adding a calendar that is set to public. If you are unsure, please follow these instructions first to set a Google calendar public before adding it.

More detailed documentation on creating & managing a public Google calendar: <https://support.google.com/calendar/answer/37083>

Setting Google Calendar →
Adding Schedule Page →
Setting Page Type →
Editting Menu
Get Calendar ID and API KEY →
NexT Config
Follow these instructions to find your Google Calendar ID.

Login to Google developers and add Google Calendar API, you will get your API KEY on the credentials page.

Custom 404 Page
In your terminal, change to the source folder of site root directory. Create a new folder called 404, then create a new page in it:

cd hexo-site
hexo new page 404
Make sure relative_link is disabled in Hexo config file:

Hexo config file
relative_link: false
Whether users can be redirected to the 404 page depends on the settings of the website hosting service or web server, not Hexo. For example, if you use Nginx as the server, you also need to configure the 404 page in nginx.conf file.

Commonweal 404
If you would like to enable commonweal 404 (A service provided by Tencent in China), Edit 404/index.md like this:

---

title: '404'
date: 2014-12-22 12:39:04
comments: false
---

<script src="//qzonestyle.gtimg.cn/qzone/hybrid/app/404/search_children.js"
        charset="utf-8" homePageUrl="/" homePageName="Back to home">
</script>
You can also add any content you want to it.

Add 404 to menu by editing NexT config file:

NexT config file
menu:
  home: / || fa fa-home
  archives: /archives/ || fa fa-archive
  commonweal: /404/ || fa fa-heartbeat

# MISC

Misc Theme Settings
NexT User Docs – Theme Settings - Misc Theme Settings
DOCS THEME SETTINGS MISCELLANEOUS
Preconnect
NexT supports adding preconnect resource hints to establish early connections to fonts and plugins origins.

You can enable it by setting preconnect: true in NexT config file.

NexT config file

# Preconnect CDN for fonts and plugins

# For more information: <https://www.w3.org/TR/resource-hints/#preconnect>

preconnect: true
Text Align
NexT allows to customize the text alignment in posts / pages. The text-align CSS property sets the horizontal alignment of a block element or table-cell box.

Values Effect
start The same as left if direction is left-to-right and right if direction is right-to-left.
end The same as right if direction is left-to-right and left if direction is right-to-left.
left The inline contents are aligned to the left edge of the line box.
right The inline contents are aligned to the right edge of the line box.
center The inline contents are centered within the line box.
justify The inline contents are justified. Text should be spaced to line up its left and right edges to the left and right edges of the line box, except for the last line.
justify-all Same as justify, but also forces the last line to be justified.
match-parent Similar to inherit, but the values start and end are calculated according to the parent's direction and are replaced by the appropriate left or right value.
NexT config file

# Set the text alignment in the posts

text_align:

# Available values: start | end | left | right | center | justify | justify-all | match-parent

  desktop: justify
  mobile: justify
Mobile Devices Adaptation
If you want to reduce padding/margin indents on devices with narrow width, you can enable it by setting value mobile_layout_economy to true in NexT config file.

NexT config file
mobile_layout_economy: true
Theme Color
By default NexT uses black-deep (#222) as the color of browser header panel (it's supported by Safari 15 and Android Chrome). You can configure it by editing values with Hex color in theme_color section in NexT config file.

NexT config file
theme_color:
  light: "#222"
  dark: "#222"
Body Scrollbar
NexT config file

# Override browsers' default behavior

body_scrollbar:

# Place the scrollbar over the content

  overlay: false

# Present the scrollbar even if the content is not overflowing

  stable: false
Codeblock Style
theme
copy_button
NexT uses the Highlight.js and Prism package to support code highlight.

Please read Hexo's documentation on Syntax Highlighting first, and set it up in Hexo config file.

You can preview all available Code Highlight themes here: NexT Highlight Theme Preview. Change the value of theme and prism to choose the highlight style you like.

NexT config file
codeblock:

# Code Highlight theme

# All available themes: <https://theme-next.js.org/highlight/>

  theme:
    light: default
    dark: stackoverflow-dark
  prism:
    light: prism
    dark: prism-dark
If Dark Mode is enabled, dark code highlighting themes will be available.

Back To Top
enable
sidebar
scrollpercent
NexT config file
back2top:
  enable: true
Set the value back2top.enable to true to display Back to top button.

Reading Progress
NexT supports the page scroll reading progress indicator.

You can enable it by setting value reading_progress.enable to true in NexT config file.

NexT config file
reading_progress:
  enable: true

# Available values: left | right

  start_at: left

# Available values: top | bottom

  position: top
  reversed: false
  color: "#37c6c0"
  height: 2px
Bookmark
Bookmark is a plugin that allow the users save their reading progress. Users could just click the bookmark icon (like 🔖) in left-top of the page to save the scroll position. And when they visit your blog in the next time, they can resume the last scroll position of each page automatically.

You can enable it by setting value bookmark.enable to true in NexT config file.

NexT config file
bookmark:
  enable: false

# Customize the color of the bookmark

  color: "#222"

# If auto, save the reading progress when closing the page or clicking the bookmark-icon

# If manual, only save it by clicking the bookmark-icon

  save: auto
GitHub Banner
NexT provides Follow me on GitHub banner in right-top corner.

NexT config file

# Follow me on GitHub banner in right-top corner

github_banner:
  enable: true
  permalink: <https://github.com/yourname>
You can set enable to true and add your own GitHub link.

Fonts Customization
NexT gives you 5 specific font settings, they are:

Global Font: Font used in the whole site.
Title Font: Font used by site title.
Headlines Font: Font used by headings in articles (h1, h2, h3, h4, h5, h6).
Article Font: Font used by articles.
Code Font: Font used by code blocks in articles.
Each font will be used as the first font of this class, NexT will fallback to internal font settings if they are unavailable.

Non-code Font: Fallback to "PingFang SC", "Microsoft YaHei", sans-serif
Code Font: Fallback to consolas, Menlo, "PingFang SC", "Microsoft YaHei", monospace
Plus each section has a external attribute, this controls whether to use the font library CDN.
Use this can help you to use fonts installed in system and reduce unnecessary requests.

To solve the unstable of Google Fonts API in some countries, NexT supports custom URL of fonts library by setting font.host.
In addition, we noticed that for requests from certain websites, Google Fonts will return 403. At this time, it is necessary to use font.host to set up a mirror site.
Relevant issues: #613, #1333

NexT config file
font:

# Use custom fonts families or not

# Depended options: `external` and `family`

  enable: true

# Uri of fonts host, e.g. <https://fonts.googleapis.com> (Default)

  host:

# Font options

# `external: true` will load this font family from `host` above

# `family: Times New Roman`. Without any quotes

# `size: x.x`. Use `em` as unit. Default: 1 (16px)

# Global font settings used for all elements inside <body>

  global:
    external: true
    family: Monda
    size: 1.125

# Font settings for site title (.site-title)

  title:
    external: true
    family: Lobster Two
    size:

# Font settings for headlines (<h1> to <h6>)

  headings:
    external: true
    family: Amita
    size:

# Font settings for posts (.post-body)

  posts:
    external: true
    family: Montserrat

# Font settings for <code> and code blocks

  codes:
    external: true
    family: PT Mono
And you can apply multiple font families for each option. This is especially useful for those who often writes both Chinese and English.

NexT config file
font:
  ...
  title:
    external: true
    family: Roboto Slab, Noto Serif SC
    size:
According to the CSS Fonts Module Level 3 spec:

Font family names other than generic families must either be given quoted as strings, or unquoted as a sequence of one or more identifiers.

To avoid escaping mistakes, quote font family names if necessary.

If you still need more customization, following change will cover Fonts Customization function. Edit source/_data/variables.styl in site root directory and add two variables:

hexo/source/_data/variables.styl
// Title Font, set it to font family you want.
$font-family-headings = Georgia, sans

// Set it to font family you want.
$font-family-base = "Microsoft YaHei", Verdana, sans-serif

// Code Font.
$code-font-family = "Input Mono", "PT Mono", Consolas, Monaco, Menlo, monospace

// Font size of articles.
$font-size-base = 16px

// Font size of table and code.
$table-font-size = 13px
Then uncomment variable under the custom_file_path section in NexT config file.

#
